PREDICTING THE ROCK & ROLL HALL OF FAME:
We analyzed data related to the 214 performers currently inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, as well as another 145 artists that are eligible and are generally recognized as worthy of inclusion, but have been snubbed.  The factors consider include statistics such as record sales, chart success, influence among other artists, and critical acclaim.  We tested different machine learning algorithms (logistic regression, Naive Bayes, support vector machines, random forest) to assess the data and find which algorithm was the best fit for making future predictions.  We decided on random forest, and a 70/30 train/test split, as it produced the highest precision, recall and f1-scores.   We then used that model to predict the likelihood of future inductees based on the same criteria in order to predict which 5 of the 15 nominees for the class of 2019 would most likely be inducted.  The artists with the highest probability of being inducted as a result of those predictions were, in order: Janet Jackson, Radiohead, Todd Rundgren, Def Leppard and the Cure.  We will have to wait until December 2018 for the official announcements to find out how accurate these predictions are.  We also ran 25 potential nominees for the year 2044 (25 years from now, as artists are eligible for induction 25 years after their first official release) through the same model, based on the limited data currently available, to predict a potential class of 2044 (Eminem, Kanye West, Drake, Rihanna and Lil Wayne).  For project related visualizations please visit: https://public.tableau.com/profile/michael.borenstein#!/vizhome/RockHallofFame/InducteesperYear
